Term1-proj4-Advanced-Lane-Lines/writeup.md, before:

## Writeup 

**Advanced Lane Finding Project**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:

* Compute the camera calibration matrix and distortion coefficients given a set of chessboard images.
* Apply a distortion correction to raw images.
* Use color transforms, gradients, etc., to create a thresholded binary image.
* Apply a perspective transform to rectify binary image ("birds-eye view").
* Detect lane pixels and fit to find the lane boundary.
* Determine the curvature of the lane and vehicle position with respect to center.
* Warp the detected lane boundaries back onto the original image.
* Output visual display of the lane boundaries and numerical estimation of lane curvature and vehicle position.

[//]: # (Image References)

[imageUndistortCheckerboard]: ./output_images/undistort_checkerboard.png "Undistorted checkerboard"
[imageUndistortRoadImage]: ./output_images/undistort_road_img.png "Undistorted road image"

[image2]: ./test_images/test1.jpg "Road Transformed"
[image3]: ./examples/binary_combo_example.jpg "Binary Example"
[image4]: ./examples/warped_straight_lines.jpg "Warp Example"
[image5]: ./examples/color_fit_lines.jpg "Fit Visual"
[image6]: ./examples/example_output.jpg "Output"
[video1]: ./project_video.mp4 "Video"

## [Rubric](https://review.udacity.com/#!/rubrics/571/view) Points

Here I will consider the rubric points individually and describe how I addressed each point in my implementation.  

---

### Writeup / README

#### 1. Provide a Writeup / README that includes all the rubric points and how you addressed each one. 

You're reading it!

### Camera Calibration

#### 1. Briefly state how you computed the camera matrix and distortion coefficients. Provide an example of a distortion corrected calibration image.

The code for this step is contained in the file `camera_calibration.py`.

Here we determine the camera matrix, which captures the transformation between real-world 3D coordinates of objects and their corresponding 2D image coordinates. For this purpose we use a checkerboard as our object, since it has a simple pattern with good contrast and known dimensions. We use the internal corners of the checkerboard to determine the 3D world and 2D image coordinates. 

Since the checkerboard is flat, we can set its z-coordinates to 0, and for every checkerboard image, we can assume the same real-world checkerboard object with the same (x,y,z) coordinates. Thus, `objp` is just a replicated array of coordinates, and `objpoints` will be appended with a copy of it every time all checkerboard corners are detected in a test image.  

`imgpoints` will be appended with the (x, y) pixel position of each of the corners in the image plane with each successful checkerboard detection.  

I then used the output `objpoints` and `imgpoints` to compute the camera calibration and distortion coefficients using the `cv2.calibrateCamera()` function.  I applied this distortion correction to the test image using the `cv2.undistort()` function and obtained the following result.

For a checkerboard image:
![alt text][imageUndistortCheckerboard]

### Pipeline (single images)

#### 1. Provide an example of a distortion-corrected image.

Once the camera calibration is available from the previous step, it can be used to undistort real-world test images using the `cv2.undistort()` function:

Notice how the deer-warning road-sign appears flatter in the undistorted image:
![alt text][imageUndistortRoadImage]

#### 2. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you used color transforms, gradients or other methods to create a thresholded binary image.  Provide an example of a binary image result.

I used a combination of color and gradient thresholds to generate a binary image (thresholding steps at lines # through # in `another_file.py`).  Here's an example of my output for this step.  (note: this is not actually from one of the test images)

![alt text][image3]

#### 3. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you performed a perspective transform and provide an example of a transformed image.

The code for my perspective transform includes a function called `warper()`, which appears in lines 1 through 8 in the file `example.py` (output_images/examples/example.py) (or, for example, in the 3rd code cell of the IPython notebook).  The `warper()` function takes as inputs an image (`img`), as well as source (`src`) and destination (`dst`) points.  I chose the hardcode the source and destination points in the following manner:

```python
src = np.float32(
    [[(img_size[0] / 2) - 55, img_size[1] / 2 + 100],
    [((img_size[0] / 6) - 10), img_size[1]],
    [(img_size[0] * 5 / 6) + 60, img_size[1]],
    [(img_size[0] / 2 + 55), img_size[1] / 2 + 100]])
dst = np.float32(
    [[(img_size[0] / 4), 0],
    [(img_size[0] / 4), img_size[1]],
    [(img_size[0] * 3 / 4), img_size[1]],
    [(img_size[0] * 3 / 4), 0]])
```

This resulted in the following source and destination points:

| Source        | Destination   | 
|:-------------:|:-------------:| 
| 585, 460      | 320, 0        | 
| 203, 720      | 320, 720      |
| 1127, 720     | 960, 720      |
| 695, 460      | 960, 0        |

I verified that my perspective transform was working as expected by drawing the `src` and `dst` points onto a test image and its warped counterpart to verify that the lines appear parallel in the warped image.

![alt text][image4]

#### 4. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you identified lane-line pixels and fit their positions with a polynomial?

Then I did some other stuff and fit my lane lines with a 2nd order polynomial kinda like this:

![alt text][image5]

#### 5. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you calculated the radius of curvature of the lane and the position of the vehicle with respect to center.

I did this in lines # through # in my code in `my_other_file.py`

#### 6. Provide an example image of your result plotted back down onto the road such that the lane area is identified clearly.

I implemented this step in lines # through # in my code in `yet_another_file.py` in the function `map_lane()`.  Here is an example of my result on a test image:

![alt text][image6]

---

### Pipeline (video)

#### 1. Provide a link to your final video output.  Your pipeline should perform reasonably well on the entire project video (wobbly lines are ok but no catastrophic failures that would cause the car to drive off the road!).

Here's a [link to my video result](./project_video.mp4)

---

### Discussion

#### 1. Briefly discuss any problems / issues you faced in your implementation of this project.  Where will your pipeline likely fail?  What could you do to make it more robust?

Here I'll talk about the approach I took, what techniques I used, what worked and why, where the pipeline might fail and how I might improve it if I were going to pursue this project further.

Commit message:

Updated writeup with information on gradient and color thresholding.

Term1-proj4-Advanced-Lane-Lines/writeup.md, after:

## Writeup 

**Advanced Lane Finding Project**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:

* Compute the camera calibration matrix and distortion coefficients given a set of chessboard images.
* Apply a distortion correction to raw images.
* Use color transforms, gradients, etc., to create a thresholded binary image.
* Apply a perspective transform to rectify binary image ("birds-eye view").
* Detect lane pixels and fit to find the lane boundary.
* Determine the curvature of the lane and vehicle position with respect to center.
* Warp the detected lane boundaries back onto the original image.
* Output visual display of the lane boundaries and numerical estimation of lane curvature and vehicle position.

## [Rubric](https://review.udacity.com/#!/rubrics/571/view) Points

Here I will consider the rubric points individually and describe how I addressed each point in my implementation.  

---

### Writeup / README

#### 1. Provide a Writeup / README that includes all the rubric points and how you addressed each one. 

You're reading it!

### Camera Calibration

#### 1. Briefly state how you computed the camera matrix and distortion coefficients. Provide an example of a distortion corrected calibration image.

The code for this step is contained in the file `camera_calibration.py`.

Here we determine the camera matrix, which captures the transformation between real-world 3D coordinates of objects and their corresponding 2D image coordinates. For this purpose we use a checkerboard as our object, since it has a simple pattern with good contrast and known dimensions. We use the internal corners of the checkerboard to determine the 3D world and 2D image coordinates. 

Since the checkerboard is flat, we can set its z-coordinates to 0, and for every checkerboard image, we can assume the same real-world checkerboard object with the same (x, y, z) coordinates. Thus, `objp` is just a replicated array of coordinates, and `objpoints` will be appended with a copy of it every time all checkerboard corners are detected in a test image.  

`imgpoints` will be appended with the (x, y) pixel position of each of the corners in the image plane with each successful checkerboard detection.  

I then used the output `objpoints` and `imgpoints` to compute the camera calibration and distortion coefficients using the `cv2.calibrateCamera()` function.  I applied this distortion correction to a test image using the `cv2.undistort()` function and obtained the following result.

[imageUndistortCheckerboard]: ./output_images/undistort_checkerboard.png "Undistorted checkerboard"
![alt text][imageUndistortCheckerboard]

### Pipeline (single images)

#### 1. Provide an example of a distortion-corrected image.

Once the camera calibration is available from the previous step, it can be used to undistort real-world test images using the `cv2.undistort()` function:

Notice how the deer-warning road-sign appears flatter in the undistorted image:

[imageUndistortRoadImage]: ./output_images/undistort_road_img.png "Undistorted road image"
![alt text][imageUndistortRoadImage]

#### 2. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you used color transforms, gradients or other methods to create a thresholded binary image.  Provide an example of a binary image result.

 I used a combination of gradient (x-direction) and HLS colorspace thresholding on the S-channel. See `binarize_frame()` in `image_binarization.py` and the illustrations in the following images. 

[image1XGradientThreshold]: ./output_images/1-x-gradient-threshold.png "Undistorted road image"
![alt text][image1XGradientThreshold]

[image2SThreshold]: ./output_images/2-S-threshold.png "Undistorted road image"
![alt text][image2SThreshold]

[image3CombinedGradientSThreshold]: ./output_images/3-combined-gradient-S-threshold.png "Undistorted road image"
![alt text][image3CombinedGradientSThreshold]

#### 3. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you performed a perspective transform and provide an example of a transformed image.

The code for my perspective transform includes a function called `warper()`, which appears in lines 1 through 8 in the file `example.py` (output_images/examples/example.py) (or, for example, in the 3rd code cell of the IPython notebook).  The `warper()` function takes as inputs an image (`img`), as well as source (`src`) and destination (`dst`) points.  I chose the hardcode the source and destination points in the following manner:

```python
src = np.float32(
    [[(img_size[0] / 2) - 55, img_size[1] / 2 + 100],
    [((img_size[0] / 6) - 10), img_size[1]],
    [(img_size[0] * 5 / 6) + 60, img_size[1]],
    [(img_size[0] / 2 + 55), img_size[1] / 2 + 100]])
dst = np.float32(
    [[(img_size[0] / 4), 0],
    [(img_size[0] / 4), img_size[1]],
    [(img_size[0] * 3 / 4), img_size[1]],
    [(img_size[0] * 3 / 4), 0]])
```

This resulted in the following source and destination points:

| Source        | Destination   | 
|:-------------:|:-------------:| 
| 585, 460      | 320, 0        | 
| 203, 720      | 320, 720      |
| 1127, 720     | 960, 720      |
| 695, 460      | 960, 0        |

I verified that my perspective transform was working as expected by drawing the `src` and `dst` points onto a test image and its warped counterpart to verify that the lines appear parallel in the warped image.

![alt text][image4]

#### 4. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you identified lane-line pixels and fit their positions with a polynomial?

Then I did some other stuff and fit my lane lines with a 2nd order polynomial kinda like this:

![alt text][image5]

#### 5. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you calculated the radius of curvature of the lane and the position of the vehicle with respect to center.

I did this in lines # through # in my code in `my_other_file.py`

#### 6. Provide an example image of your result plotted back down onto the road such that the lane area is identified clearly.

I implemented this step in lines # through # in my code in `yet_another_file.py` in the function `map_lane()`.  Here is an example of my result on a test image:

![alt text][image6]

---

### Pipeline (video)

#### 1. Provide a link to your final video output.  Your pipeline should perform reasonably well on the entire project video (wobbly lines are ok but no catastrophic failures that would cause the car to drive off the road!).

Here's a [link to my video result](./project_video.mp4)

---

### Discussion

#### 1. Briefly discuss any problems / issues you faced in your implementation of this project.  Where will your pipeline likely fail?  What could you do to make it more robust?

Here I'll talk about the approach I took, what techniques I used, what worked and why, where the pipeline might fail and how I might improve it if I were going to pursue this project further.
